### Show & Tell
[reddit](http://www.reddit.com/)
Reddit has a simplistic design to it while being loaded with interesting discussions in it's various subreddits. It makes it easy for the user to browse through loads of postings by having a voting system which will cause the hottest/most interesting posts to jump to the top of the listing. Visually it provides a lightly colored background with stuff the user would want to click on in a dark color, making it easy to navigate and read through.

### Reading Response

http://blog.8thlight.com/doug-bradbury/2009/08/22/why-software-development-is-a-craft.html

This article explains the Software Craftsmanship community's belief of why software development is a craft. It argues point by point and makes great use of comparisons to other crafts to explain why software development is one as well. The author lists similarities of "The Hand and the Eye", "Making", "Material", "Tools", and "Learning" to those of more common crafts such as glassblowers and potters. He those same topics to demonstrate why software development is more of a craft than engineering or science. An example from his section on "Making", "Another element that makes software development a literal craft is that software development is a process of making. Contrast that to engineering. What is the primary activity of an engineer? It is design". The part that is most confusing to me is why the fact that software developer being labeled as a craft is a huge matter. Are programmers being taken less seriously because they aren't considered craftsman? I always thought that programmers were just as integral to a system as any other part is. I felt like this article and the whole craftsman movement was created by some people's ego making them desire acknowledgement as a craftsman. This article breaks from prior knowledge in that I had not known there was a movement from software developers to have their profession considered a craft.

http://dannorth.net/2011/01/11/programming-is-not-a-craft/

This article took the opposition to the previous one and goes on about why software development is not a craft. The important points made by this article are why software development is not a craft and what that it lacks the aesthetics and is more of a from point A to point B profession. Another important point the author summizes towards the end is that the current software craftsman movement is too focused on creating a product that would "focus on the outcome rather than the code or the process". The part I have trouble with in this article is in the section, "The easiest qualification in the world". He says that it's simply too easy to jump on the software craftsmanship bandwagon because all you have to do is sign a petition. However, I have to ask him what would be a reasonable demonstration of programming knowledge to sign a petition that could be done over a browser. Also, it's a petition. Most, if not all, petitions I come across have the same no-qualification requirement as this one did. This article connects with my previous thoughts of programming as being a tool with a more objective focus with no real aesthetic.

http://blog.codinghorror.com/software-engineering-dead/

This article seems to support the idea that software development is a craft but it also declares software engineering as being dead. The key part is that there is no engineering in software development because "control is ultimately illusory on software development projects". Rather, it software development is a craft that is in constant experimentation and the only way to make most out of it is by adopting a craftsmanship mindset and consistently trying to hone your craft while you program. I would have liked a further explanation on why he thinks, "If you want to move your project forward, the only reliable way to do that is to cultivate a deep sense of software craftsmanship and professionalism around it." It's a very strong statement that suggests adopting a different mindset if you perceive software development as engineering. It sounds interesting and I would have liked to have read more about why the author thinks mode of thinking is better. Similar to this article, I have always thought of software development as being similar to other crafts in that it is a skill that needs to be honed and practiced.
